---
layout: post
title: "Introducing  OpenSSL 3.0"
date:   2023-12-31 23:59:59 +0100
tags:
  - openssl
  - security
  - tls
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---

## Introducing  OpenSSL 3.0

After a year of development work, we have finally released **ArrowDL** with **OpenSSL v3**!

**OpenSSL v3** is available in *ArrowDL* v3.1.0 (from December 31, 2023).
The application has previously used *OpenSSL v1.1* until this recent release.

**OpenSSL v3** is mandatory for Qt6.6.0, that's the main reason of this move.

By design, **ArrowDL** ships the OpenSSL version provided by Qt (OpenSSL v3.0.2 at the time of writing these lines).


### History of OpenSSL

OpenSSL 3.0 has been released in September 2021.

OpenSSL 1.1.1 was released in September 2018, and so it was considered End Of Life in September 2023.

https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2023/03/28/1.1.1-EOL/

> OpenSSL is a software library for applications that provide secure communications over computer networks against eavesdropping, and identify the party at the other end.
> It is widely used by Internet servers, including the majority of HTTPS websites. 
> -- wikipedia


### Note for a clean installation (from ArrowDL <3.0.6)

If the app is installed on top of an an older version (for example, through the automatic upgrader),
the old OpenSSL 1.1 libraries won't be removed, because the OpenSSL 3.0 libraries have another names.

For Windows:
- SSL (formely libSSL): `libssl-3-x64.dll`
- Crypto (formely libEAY): `libcrypto-3-x64.dll`

To have a clean installation, uninstall the 3.0.6 with the uninstaller, and install the 3.1.0.

This way, the OpenSSL 1.1 libraries should be definitly removed.


### Next

This major OpenSSl API change has permitted to refactor **ArrowDL** deeply.
The next updates should be easier and ultimately more frequent.


Enjoy! :)
